docs: Connect visual studio code to workspace (#2864)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/end-user-guide/pages/connect-visual-studio-code-to-che-workspace.adoc

[id="connect-visual-studio-code-to-che-workspace"]

= Connecting Visual Studio Code to a {prod-short} workspace

> {prod} supports connecting your desktop Visual Studio Code to a running {prod-short} workspace over link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/tunnels/[Remote Tunnels].

Reviewer: this is not limited to the open source version of VS Code, correct?

Author: Yes

.Connecting Visual Studio Code desktop to a new workspace

> The following steps will help you to connect your workspace with your local Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to connect a new workspace with your local Visual Studio Code.
```

.Prerequisites

. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/[Visual Studio Code] is installed.

.Procedure

> . Create a workspace on the {prod-short} Dashboard and choose `Visual Studio Code (desktop)` editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a workspace on the {prod-short} Dashboard and choose *Visual Studio Code (desktop)* as your editor.
```

+
image::vscode-remote/select-editor.png[IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate on Dashboard,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/select-editor.png"]

. Wait for the login page to appear.
+
image::vscode-remote/login.png[Open Gateway prompt,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/login.png"]
+

> . Proceed the login using your Microsoft or GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in with your Microsoft or GitHub account.
```

+

> Click `Copy & Continue to Microsoft` or `Copy & Continue to GitHub` button in the appeared dialog to copy the authentication code to the clipboard and open the authenticating pop-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the *Copy & Continue to Microsoft* or *Copy & Continue to GitHub* button to copy the authentication code to the clipboard and to open the authenticating pop-up.
```

+
image::vscode-remote/login-with-provider.png[Open Gateway prompt,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/login-with-provider.png"]

> . Complete authenticating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Complete the authentication process.
```

+

> In the appeared pop-up you can paste the code from the clipboard and follow the instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste in the code from the clipboard and follow the instructions.
```

> On successful authentication, close the pop-up and wait while a tunnel to your workspace will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On successful authentication, close the pop-up and wait for the tunnel to your workspace to be created.
```

+
image::vscode-remote/open-visual-studio-code.png[Open Gateway prompt,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/open-visual-studio-code.png"]

. Open your workspace in Visual Studio Code desktop.
+

> Click `Open in Visual Studio Code desktop` to open your workspace in your desktop Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click *Open in Visual Studio Code desktop* to open your workspace in the desktop version of Visual Studio Code.
```

> In the appeared pop-up click `Open Visual Studio Code - URL Handler` to confirm opening the desktop application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm opening the desktop application by clicking *Open Visual Studio Code - URL Handler*.
```

+
image::vscode-remote/confirm-opening-vscode-desktop.png[Open Gateway prompt,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/confirm-opening-vscode-desktop.png"]

[NOTE]
====

> If you are not signed in yet, allow Visual Studio Code to sign in with the account you used to create the tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not signed in yet, allow Visual Studio Code to sign in with the same account you used to create the tunnel.
```

====

[TIP]
====
If Visual Studio Code opens your workspace with a delay, open *Remote Explorer* view.
====

.Connecting Visual Studio Code to an existing workspace

> With link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line[Visual Studio Code Command Line Interface (CLI)] you can crate a tunnel to an existing workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With link:https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line[Visual Studio Code Command Line Interface (CLI)] you can create a tunnel to an existing workspace.
```

.Prerequisites

. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/[Visual Studio Code] is installed.
. link:https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.remote-server[Remote - Tunnels] extension is installed.

.Procedure

> . Install Visual Studio Code CLI to your workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Install Visual Studio Code CLI in your workspace.
```

+

> Open a terminal and run the following command to install Visual Studio Code CLI to `/checode` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and run the following command to install Visual Studio Code CLI in the `/checode` directory.
```

+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
curl 'https://code.visualstudio.com/sha/download?build=stable&os=cli-alpine-x64' --location -o /tmp/code.tar.gz && \
tar -xvzf /tmp/code.tar.gz --directory=/checode
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> If you don't have `gzip` installed to your workspace, you won't be able to install the CLI using the above command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't have `gzip` installed in your workspace, you won't be able to install the CLI using the command above.
```

Reviewer: we can make `gzip` a prerequisite, if you'd like

Author: I would say this is more of an exception than a rule.
I'm going to create an issue to include `gzip` to all the images we maintain.

> In this case you need to:
> 
> - link:https://code.visualstudio.com/Download[download CLI] for *Linux x64* architecture to your desktop,
> unpack and upload the extracted binary to your workspace root
> 
> - move CLI binary to `/checode` directory and make in executable
> 
> [source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
> ----
> mv $PROJECT_SOURCE/code /checode && chmod +x /checode/code
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case you need to:

. link:https://code.visualstudio.com/Download[Download CLI] for *Linux x64* architecture to your desktop,
unpack and upload the extracted binary to your workspace root.

. Move CLI binary to `/checode` directory and make it executable:

[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
mv $PROJECT_SOURCE/code /checode && chmod +x /checode/code
----
```

====

> . Launch CLI and login using your Microsoft or GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Launch the Visual Studio Code CLI and log in using your Microsoft or GitHub account.
```

+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
/checode/code tunnel --accept-server-license-terms --name $DEVWORKSPACE_NAME
----
+
image::vscode-remote/cli-create-tunnel.png[Open Gateway prompt,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/cli-create-tunnel.png"]
+
After successful login, you will be prompted to open the workspace in your browser.

. Open your workspace in local Visual Studio Code.
+

> Open your local Visual Studio Code and navigate to `Remote Explorer` view, a new tunnel to your workspace should appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your local Visual Studio Code and navigate to *Remote Explorer* view. A tunnel to your workspace will appear.
```

> With buttons on the right, open your workspace in a current or in a new window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the buttons on the right, open your workspace in the current or a new window.
```

+
image::vscode-remote/vscode-remote-explorer.png[Open Gateway prompt,link="{imagesdir}/vscode-remote/vscode-remote-explorer.png"]

[NOTE]
====
A tunnel to your workspace will not appear if you are not signed in yet.

> If so happened, sign in using the account you are used to create a tunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sign in using the same account you used to create the tunnel.
```
